<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: The Threadbare Authors
SPDX-License-Identifier: MPL-2.0
-->
# Content Guidelines for Threadbare

Threadbare is a game for people aged 13 and older. We hope for it to be
experienced, enjoyed, and extended at home, in the classroom, and beyond, and
the content of the game reflects this goal. This document lays out guidelines
for what kinds of content and themes may be included in Threadbare.

There are two kinds of quest in the game: LoreQuests, which form the main
narrative of the game itself; and StoryQuests, which are self-contained stories
which exist outside the main narrative and contain their own characters,
enemies, settings, and themes. Although StoryQuests are conceptually separate,
the same content guidelines apply to StoryQuests as to the game as a whole.

While we have tried to make these guidelines clear, with firm lines drawn where
possible, some decisions about suitable content are subjective. If you're not
sure whether an idea you have would be accepted, or if you see content in the
game which you feel does not comply with these guidelines, please [discuss it
with us](https://github.com/endlessm/threadbare/discussions)!

## Themes

The main narrative tells the story of a fantasy world which has fallen into ruin
due to various malignant forces, seen and unseen. The plot is generally
lighthearted, though the protagonist and other characters encounter enemies and
perilous situations. It's OK for the game to be exciting or mildly scary in
places. For instance, in one scene, StoryWeaver must outrun an all-consuming
void or be unravelled by it; this is an intentionally challenging sequence and
the appearance of the void may startle the player.

A StoryQuest may explore darker themes; for example, a StoryQuest may tell the
story of a nightmare that its protagonist had one night, searching for their
brother in a dark forest while evading ghosts and monsters. Not all players may
enjoy playing this story: that's OK, they can choose not to do so.

The game does not depict or make references to drugs, sex, or nudity.

## Violence

Threadbare does not contain realistic violence or harm.

The combat that is present in Threadbare is fantastical or cartoon in nature.
For example, the InkDrinkers throw blobs of ink at the protagonist, and the “El
Juguete Perdido” StoryQuest features cartoon goblins throwing cartoon sticks of
dynamite at the player. A scene involving water-pistols would be acceptable;
a scene involving knives would not be.

When characters are defeated (such as when StoryWeaver is caught in a stealth
challenge or by the Void; or when Stella is spotted by a guard), the animations
are cartoonish and appropriate to the theme: StoryWeaver unravels into a pile of
thread, and Stella looks around her, shocked. Characters may not come to
realistic harm.

## Language

Threadbare does not contain strong language, swearing, profanity, or innuendo.
Jokes and humor are encouraged, but should not be insulting to particular groups
of people. All dialogue in the game should respect our [community code of
conduct](https://github.com/endlessm/threadbare?tab=coc-ov-file#readme).
